Now, just looking at our text, which is taken from Acts 1, verse 8,
we suddenly see a distinct connection between power and Holy Spirit.
And that combination guarantees a successful outcome,
because the verse goes on to say,
you will be witnesses of me to the most distant part of the earth.
Now, the study note explains that the expression Holy Spirit
appears 41 times in the book of Acts,
and that makes it clear again and again that the international preaching work
is only successful because of the power of Jehovah's Holy Spirit.
But a personal question,
how does an unseen active force give me power to accomplish tasks associated with this work?
When you think about it, the Bible metaphorically describes Holy Spirit as God's hand
or His fingers. For example, Psalm 19, verse 1,
describes the skies as the work of God's hand.
And Psalm 8, verse 3 refers to the moon and stars
as the works of God's fingers.
Now, our hands and fingers are a wonderful gift from Jehovah,
and today we will use them in a variety of ways to accomplish our various individual skills.
But whatever natural abilities we possess,
Holy Spirit can give us the power to take these abilities to a higher level.
And since Jehovah used Holy Spirit to create the skies,
we could say that the skies the limit
as far as the potential is concerned for Jehovah to expand our abilities.
Now, let's just consider the power that Jesus has today because of Holy Spirit.
At Revelation chapter 3, verse 1, Jesus is described as having
the seven spirits of God.
Now, our publications have explained that those seven spirits symbolise Jesus' ability to observe
and discern everyone and everything throughout the earth.
Now, think about that as we look at the illustration on the screen.
With the earth's population estimated to hit 8 billion around November 2022,
Jesus has the ability to scrutinize every individual from the vantage point of his throne in heaven.
As a perfect judge, he will divide the world's population into sheep and goats during the great
tribulation, and every single assessment will be right and just.
And as we also see illustrated following that judgment,
Holy Spirit will give Jesus the power to execute divine judgments at the battle of Armageddon.
Now, when you think of all that power unleashed at Armageddon,
and not one single casualty amongst those who Jesus has identified as a sheep,
now that just shows you that Jesus possessing the seven spirits of God gives him a tremendous amount
of power. Now, while we will never have or even need Jesus' powers, what does that do for us?
It instills confidence that even a tiny amount of God's spirit can give us the power to fulfill
our assignments. Now, let's consider the example of two humans, mentioned in Exodus chapter 35.
And these two humans are Bezilell and Oholyab. These two men were involved in the furnishing of
the Tabernacle. And if we look at verse 35, I'm sorry, verse 31, it says, he, that's Jehovah, has
filled him, that's Bezilell, with the spirit of God giving him wisdom, understanding, and knowledge
of every sort of craftsmanship. And then in verse 35, it says, he, again, Jehovah, has filled them
this time, including Bezilell and Oholyab, filled them with skill. Or as the footnote says,
a wisdom of heart to do all the work of a craftsman. So these two men probably had a knowledge of
crafts before assigned to these skilled tasks. However, God's spirit filled them with wisdom,
understanding, and knowledge why to accomplish the work to a higher standard.
The fact that the Tabernacle existed for nearly 500 years is surely a credit to their
workmanship. Now in our day, the gift of Holy Spirit has a fundamentally different objective.
It is to perform spiritual works, the preaching, and teaching work described in Acts chapter 1 verse 8,
but also shepherding, counseling, and guiding the congregations. But nevertheless,
the formula for success is the same as it was for Bezilell and Oholyab. When Jehovah gives us
Holy Spirit, we grow in wisdom, understanding, and knowledge. And in turn, God's finger
enhances natural talents and abilities, taking them to another level. Now let's look at our next
slide and what do you see here? Verse 32 explains that these talented men worked with gold,
silver, and copper. Now these are separate skills. A goldsmith, a silversmith, and a copper
smith learn different techniques, and they require different training. Now don't you think that's
quite amazing for one man or two men to possess all those skills in order to produce artistic
designs, as the verse says. And then verse 33 adds they made all kind of artistic wood products.
Not just any old wood and piece, but artistic products. What a combination of skills.
These men possess the ability to work with metals and wood and produce some outstanding products.
Now it's quite common for an artist to initial his works. Where any of those artistic products
carved with the initial B for bezel L, so that over the next 500 years people would know who made it.
Or was there a large letter O for Oholyab woven into the fabrics? Of course not.
Because these humble men knew that their level of craftsmanship was down to Holy Spirit.
Now actually not all of the designs may have been attributed to them. If we look at verse 34,
it tells us that they were encouraged to teach. So they teach and explain their skills to other people.
That means there was quite a number of unnamed talented individuals who worked on the tabernacle
and who learned artistic skills from bezel L and Oholyab. Now herein lies a very interesting lesson
for all who receive the gift of Holy Spirit. And it's a lesson that Paul taught in Galatians chapter 5.
So Galatians chapter 5 lists various aspects of the fruitage of the Spirit. But then Paul offers
this warning in verse 26 to those who develop the fruitage. He says, let us not become
egotistical stirring up competition with one another, envying one another.
Well there's various things mentioned there, but just let's focus on the word egotistical.
An egotist has a strong desire to receive praise from others, one who so to speak like
his initials carved in such a way against his accomplishments so that people will recognize
who did the work. And yet when we consider it so much is accomplished today by unnamed individuals
here at Bethel and the thousands of remote workers. Even those whose work is obvious to others
don't seek fame. Let's think of an example. What do you think about the standard of acting that
goes into the convention videos? It's amazing and quite outstanding, isn't it? Our brothers
have shown some outstanding skills. And yet our brothers and sisters don't play the parts using
their own real names. Nor are there credits that the end of each supports symposium for those
in front and even behind the camera. We certainly don't have awards ceremonies every year for the
best video, the best actor, the best actress, the best costume designer, the best producer,
and so on and so forth. None of that, because we all accept that Jehovah takes even natural
talents to a higher level by using his finger, his Holy Spirit. So what can we say in conclusion?
When we develop skills, we rightly feel deep satisfaction,
knowing that God's finger is at work in our lives, giving us the power to perform our various
assignments. But at the same time, we are quick to acknowledge that whatever natural talents and
abilities we possess, Jehovah takes them to a higher level by means of his finger, his Holy Spirit.